- [Instructor] Now that we've seen
the Spring MVC architecture, we have done a lot of theory,
let's get started with creating a basic Spring MVC project
that is going to work with Maven.
So let's go to the IntelliJ IDE
because the first step tells me
that we have to create a Maven web app archetype project.
This is that IntelliJ IDE,
so I'm just going to say file, new,
let's hit project, make sure that Maven is selected,
and check this box of create from archetype.
The archetype that we're looking at
is the Maven web app archetype,
so if you just scroll down a little further
you should be able to find it, which is this one.
Then click on Next, and as usual with the Maven project
you will have to specify the group ID and the Artifact ID.
Let me mention that.
This spring examples
and artifact ID could be springmvcmaven.
Click on Next.
Now on this screen, whatever options that you see,
let them be there as they are and click on Next.
And then, let's say Finish.
Let's open this project in a new window
and make sure that on the right hand side
bottom part of your screen just click on enable auto import
so that whatever new dependencies that you add
in your pom.xml will automatically get imported.
Fix all the other things
that IntelliJ is asking you to configure.
Right, so we have the basic project that is set up.
Now this pom.xml has got all the dependencies
with respect to the basic Maven web app archetype
that we created the project with.
But that's not what we want to work with.
So in your exercise files,
under the Resources folder, there is a text file called
Dependencies for Spring Maven with MVC.
I've already collected and gathered all of them
into this document for you so that we save some time.
So if you just open this document,
you see that there are a list of dependencies
that we have to insert in pom.xml
so I'm just going to take this entire thing,
copy, come back to the project,
and I'm going to just override this from line number 30.
So let's select everything from line number 30
up to line number 66, base them, and we are good.
So let's quickly inspect what we have done.
We have basically first told
that Maven should be compiling the source code
of this project using JDK 1.8 version,
then the next couple of dependencies
that you see are for the Spring web MVC framework.
The next few are the ones for working
with Java server pages, so you will need the javax.servlet
and jsp-api dependencies configured in your pom.xml.
Lastly, we have to make sure that
this project is packaged in a WAR file.
WAR is a web archive, and then we'll run it on tomcat.
So there's a Tomcat plugin that's already available for you,
which I have entered as a part of this pom.xml
so that once this project is packaged as a WAR file,
it can be run with a Tomcat container
right inside the IntelliJ IDE itself.
So that you really don't have to go out
and run it externally.
So those are the first few steps that we had to do.
We created the project.
Next in, we put all dependencies for Spring MVC,
so that's what we did as a part of the second step.
Now, the next step is create source and resources folders.